OpenTelemetry bridge (#1631)
elastic/apm-agent-java: docs/api-opentelemetry.asciidoc

ifdef::env-github[]
NOTE: For the best reading experience,
please view this documentation at https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/apm/agent/java[elastic.co]
endif::[]

[[opentelementry-bridge]]
=== OpenTelemetry bridge

NOTE: Added as experimental in 1.29.0.
To enable it, set <<config-enable-experimental-instrumentations, `enable_experimental_instrumentations`>> to `true`.

The Elastic APM OpenTelemetry bridge allows creating Elastic APM `Transactions` and `Spans`,
using the OpenTelemetry API.
In other words,
it translates the calls to the OpenTelemetry API to Elastic APM and thus allows for reusing existing instrumentation.

NOTE: While manual instrumentations using the OpenTelemetry API can be adapted to the Elastic APM Java agent, it's not possible to use the instrumentations from
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation[opentelemetry-java-instrumentation] in the context of the Elastic APM Java agent. +
However, you can use https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation[opentelemetry-java-instrumentation] (aka the OpenTelementry Java agent)
and send the data to APM Server.

> See the {apm-overview-ref-v}/open-telemetry.html[OpenTelemetry integration docs] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the {apm-guide-ref}/open-telemetry.html[OpenTelemetry integration docs] for more details.
```

The first span of a service will be converted to an Elastic APM

> {apm-overview-ref-v}/data-model-transactions.html[`Transaction`],
> subsequent spans are mapped to Elastic APM
> {apm-overview-ref-v}/data-model-spans.html[`Span`].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{apm-guide-ref}/data-model-transactions.html[`Transaction`],
subsequent spans are mapped to Elastic APM
{apm-guide-ref}/data-model-spans.html[`Span`].
```

[float]
[[otel-getting-started]]
==== Getting started
The first step in getting started with the OpenTelemetry API bridge is to declare a dependency to the API:

[source,xml]
.pom.xml
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.opentelemetry</groupId>
    <artifactId>opentelemetry-api</artifactId>
    <version>${version.opentelemetry}</version>
</dependency>
----

[source,groovy]
.build.gradle
----
compile "io.opentelemetry:opentelemetry-api:$openTelemetryVersion"
----

> The minimum required OpenTelemetry version is 0.17.0.

Reviewer 2: We test with 1.0.1 and above, our tests should be in sync with this
